
#What is my product philosophy?
I am guided by a few philosophies; they are: <b>“Understand your audience”</b>, “Invest early”, “be nimble”, “Measure twice, cut once”, “There may not be a best way”, “Give data a voice” and “Be accountable” There may be overlap in some of these philosophies but fundamentally they are what make me the person that I am (especially in a product context).

When I approach a problem, a meeting, a product or anything else - the first exercise I like to do is to map out the stakeholders, these are generally comprised of the following groups:
1. <b>The customers / clients</b> – depending on the stage at which the product is in, they have a different level of engagement. A seasoned product may have developed a sense of loyalty whereas a more transactional product might have none and just go with the cheapest option.
1. <b>The product community</b> – this group has some level of interaction with your product, but has not “bought in”, in an open source software development, they might be helping build components or in a blockchain community, they may have joined one of your marketing channels but have not been converted.
1. <b>The wider community</b> - this group is the audience that might not know you exist, ultimately the goal is to convert this group into one of the two above. 
1. <b>The internal stakeholders</b> - this is the management (C-suite), the investors, other lines of business. They all have input and are pretty close to the product. 
1. <b>The development team</b> - this is the team building the product; they may have a parent child relationship with the product, or may just need to be given the proper tools to execute.

Next I use evidence based on data to theorize what motivates them (what they care about). For example: Do they want security, do they want a product to make their lives easier. This process <b>cannot be done in isolation</b>, <b>assumptions should always be vetted through the audience groups through conversations</b>, workshopping, surveys, usage patterns and by monitoring engagement (social media) channels. With new products or problems, this is especially true and there is not frequently not an abundance of data available and it needs to be acquired (via time spent or monetarily). The key in really transitioning from identifying to understanding your audience, is to create conversations with each one of the groups (blogs, social media, fireside chats, e-mails, events, etc.). Some are easier than others, for example: an internal stakeholder, the CEO, may have a defined vision which in this case the role of the product lead is to test and bring back feedback from the combined audiences to support that vision or make suggestions on more optimal roads (a goal should be to avoid building things no one wants). Engaging the audiences to vote on a specific feature may need incentivization to make sure that the response is representative of the overall audience.

The exercise of <b>understanding your audience is never complete</b> - it is a necessary and a large portion of what being a product lead is. Just as product development is continuance development so is Product Management continuance understanding of your audience. That means understand their options (your competition), drift in their wants and needs, and that wider appeal 

Building products with understanding of the audience you are trying to serve and their  expectations becomes an exercise in being able to execute on what you’ve identified (and communicated) and then making sure that you are quickly able to change directions (<b>this MUST be built culturally within the development team</b>) if there is audience drift.
